Slide 2: What is Containerization?
Definition: Containerization is a technology for packaging and deploying applications in a standardized unit of software.
Containers are pieces of software that package code and all of the dependencies that code needs to run, including the runtime, tools, libraries, and settings.

In the diagram below, you'll see an example of three dev containers: one for Python, one for Java, and one for C++. Each of these dev containers would include the app and the dependencies that app needs to run. 
The dependencies are separate from the rest of your computer (which are represented by the Infrastructure and Host Operating System).

Benefits:
Isolation: Containers provide isolation between applications, ensuring they don't interfere with each other.
Portability: Containers can run on any system with a compatible container runtime, making them truly portable.
Agility: Containers start up faster than virtual machines, leading to faster development and deployment cycles.
Scalability: Containers can be easily scaled up or down to meet changing demands.



Slide 3: Containerization vs. Virtualization

Containers and VMs are similar in their goals: to isolate an application and its dependencies into a self-contained unit that can run anywhere.

CONTAINERS
Containers are an abstraction at the app layer that packages code and dependencies together. 
Multiple containers can run on the same machine and share the OS kernel with other containers, each running as isolated processes in user space.
Containers take up less space than VMs (container images are typically tens of MBs in size), can handle more applications and require fewer VMs and Operating systems.

VIRTUAL MACHINES
Virtual machines (VMs) are an abstraction of physical hardware turning one server into many servers.
The hypervisor allows multiple VMs to run on a single machine. Each VM includes a full copy of an operating system, the application, 
necessary binaries and libraries – taking up tens of GBs. VMs can also be slow to boot.



Slide 4:Container Images and Dockerfiles

A container image is a portable, self-contained software package that includes everything needed to run an application.
Composition:
Base image: Provides the underlying operating system and runtime environment.
Layers: Built upon the base image, containing application code, libraries, and configuration files.
Image layers are immutable: Once created, they cannot be modified.
Images are stored in container registries: Public (Docker Hub) or private.

Image: A Dockerfile template.
Definition: A Dockerfile is a text file containing instructions for building a container image.
Instructions:
FROM: Specifies the base image.
RUN: Executes commands to install dependencies and build the application.
COPY: Copies files from the host system into the image.
ENV: Sets environment variables.
CMD: Defines the command to run when the container starts.
Multi-stage builds: Create multiple images for different stages of the build process.



Slide 5: What is Kaniko?

Definition: Kaniko is a tool developed by Google to build container images from a Dockerfile, safely and efficiently, especially in environments where running a Docker daemon is not feasible or secure.
It is designed to work in environments with stricter security constraints and can be used in various cloud environments and Kubernetes.

Benefits:
Security: Kaniko builds images without requiring root access, reducing the attack surface.
Compliance: Kaniko complies with strict security policies and regulations.
Portability: Kaniko can run on any system without requiring a Docker daemon installed.


How Kaniko Works?

Kaniko doesn't depend on a Docker daemon to build Docker images. Instead, it executes the build in a containerized environment itself.
It takes a Dockerfile and a context (the source code) as input and produces a container image as output.
Kaniko builds images by directly interacting with the container registry, which can be public or private.
Kaniko vs. Docker

Docker: Requires a Docker daemon to build images, which can pose security risks and operational challenges, especially in multi-tenant CI/CD environments.
Kaniko: Eliminates the need for Docker daemon, enhancing security and enabling image builds in environments where Docker is not installed or cannot run.
Benefits of Using Kaniko

Security: Builds images without requiring root access or privileges, reducing the attack surface.
Flexibility: Can be run in any environment that can execute a container, including standard Kubernetes clusters.
Compatibility: Kaniko is designed to be fully compatible with Dockerfile syntax, making it easy to transition from Docker.
Integration: Easily integrates with existing CI/CD pipelines and cloud-native tooling.


Build the Image:

Create a Dockerfile that specifies the instructions for building your image.
docker build -t <image_name>:<tag> .


 Push the Image:

Log in to the registry using docker login command.
Use docker push command to push the image to the registry.
docker push <registry_url>/<image_name>:<tag>



. Pull the Image:

Use docker pull command to pull the image from the registry.
docker pull <registry_url>/<image_name>:<tag>


Run the Image:

Use docker run command to start a container from the pulled image.
docker run <image_name>:<tag>



. Docker images

This command lists all images stored locally.

Example:

docker images


Docker rm

This command removes a stopped container.

Example:

docker rm <container_id>
